Personas
========

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_personas_all.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: All personas of KDE

Berna
-----

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_personas_1_office.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: Berna

Berna is working as an office clerk in a big insurance. Although a smart
person, she is very unsure when it comes to technology.

Berna's major work is to check the details of insured events. She writes
reports for her boss suggesting compensation payouts for the cases she
deals with. Berna is a very precise person, and always solves her tasks
accurately.

Berna twice lost several hours of work because she didn't understand the
options she was offered. Since then, she has been very careful when
probing new functionality.

Matt
----

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_personas_2_student.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: Matt

Matt is a geology student in the last year of his undergraduate studies.
For him, technology is meant to take over annoying and repetitive tasks.

For his student research projects, Matt has to do extensive research on
the web, and has to manage pictures of stones and other geologic
material. He gains credits by using his notes to create reports and
presentations.

Matt often struggles to keep track of all his notes. He is looking for
an effective routine, so he can concentrate on the contents rather than
on finding information.

Susan
-----

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_personas_3_recreational.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: Susan

While Susan seldom uses her computer for work, it has become an
essential part of her social life. With her computer, she can be
creative and spread this creativity in the world.

She chats with her friends, shares music, playlists and other media,
creates videos and uploads them to her web space, and runs a blog with
her own style. She can't imagine a life without her laptop.

Still, she is a fun person and does not want to worry about technical
details. She expects her machine to work.

Santiago
--------

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_personas_4_decision.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: Santiago

Santiago runs a medium-sized business for electric installations. For
him, technology needs to be comfortable and make him feel smart.

As a manager with engineering background, Santiago's major work is to
negotiate with customers. However, to avoid costs, he administrates the
small network in the company himself, including a file server and
fifteen PCs for his office clerks.

He loves comfort and does not like to dive into manuals or use the
command line to set up the small network. The system has to be reliable
and easy to use, so his employees get along with it.

Philip
------

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_personas_5_geek.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: Philip

Philip is a high-school student in his last grade. Later, he wants to go
to university to study computer science. He loves the challenge of
making technology do what he wants it to do.

When he was 14, he started to probe different programming languages, and
since then has implemented various different applications he published
under free licenses. He is convinced of Linux and the benefits of free
software.

Philip is fancy about technology and is never discouraged if something
does not work as expected.


KDE Personas: Background
------------------------

The question "Why should people switch to KDE?" was an important factor
in the creation of our Personas – a crucial aspect if we want to extend
the current user base. The "Technology Adoption Lifecycle" by Rogers
(1962) deals with this question by splitting the overall user base in
groups along a bell curve according to their willingness to adopt new
technology.

Looking at the "Technology Adoption Lifecycle", you'll find the
following user groups:

.. image:: /img/Introduction_KDE4_Vision_tal.png
   :scale: 50%
   :alt: Technology Adoption Lifecycle

We suggest to move away from the *KDE is for everybody* approach to *KDE
is for the more sophisticated 50% of computer users out there, who
choose it because it perfectly suits their work and that they "want to
have it".*

Concentrating on this user base rather than everybody has both pragmatic
and motivational reasons: Pragmatically, it will be hard to make KDE a
favourite product for *laggards* and even the *late majority* within the
next five years. Neither cutting away functionality nor hiding all the
complexity behind *Advanced* buttons is an acceptable solution. Second,
creating a desktop for ambitious users better fits the current
motivation in the KDE development base. We don't want to be *simple and
stupid*, we want to develop a smart desktop with rich functionality!

To avoid misunderstandings: KDE will still be an option for educational,
governmental or large enterprise usage – but it won't be the main focus
when developing the default desktop. KDE as a configurable framework can
still be adjusted to meet the needs of any other user base.
